[Music]
okay imagine this one morning you wake
up a mountain millionaire he's probably
surprised to see you they're a little
cranky and calls the police
oops sorry I mean you wake up as a
multi-millionaire yeah that sounds like
more fun
so what would you do buy a yacht or a
garage full of sports cars maybe a
diamond tiara and a cruiser on the world
all this would sound tempting to just
about anyone but not Hedy Green who was
the richest woman in America and wore
one black dress for years Hedy or
Henrietta Greene whose maiden name was
Robinson was born in New Bedford
Massachusetts in 1834 her father Edward
owned an extremely successful whaling
company her mom also came from a
well-off family instead of playing with
dolls Hedy learned all about the stock
market and business from the age of six
she would read financial papers to her
nearly blind grandfather and follow her
dad to work both her family and her
school taught Hedy one important thing
you don't need that much to get by in
life and the goal of making money is to
save it not spend it the girl who had an
obvious talent for math oversaw all the
family accounts by thirteen even her
teen years when hormones tend to take
over didn't really affect her Hetty
invested one thousand dollars out of the
twelve hundred dollar spending allowance
she was given at 16 to mingle in New
York society she managed to somehow
survive in the Big Apple with the
remaining $200 and have a good time at
all the parties and balls at some point
she realized there were a lot of gold
diggers around and when Hetty came home
without a fiancee she told her dad that
if she ever had to get married it would
be to a guy with his own fortune she
helped him manage the family business
and was becoming more and more of a
financial guru after her mom passed away
in 1860 Hetty moved back to New York
with her dad who was going through a
midlife crisis and was hoping to find a
new
wife Henriette didn't want that to
happen and ironically well trying to
ruin her father's love life she found
one for herself Edward Henry green one
of hettie's father's business partners
who was 12 years older than her and was
a successful investor trading with the
Philippines it's hard to judge if it was
love from Heaviside knowing her true
passion was finance and logic was her
best friend
you might think she just realized edward
was a perfect match for her in 1865
mr. Robinson passed away leaving his
daughter a million dollars in a trust
fund of four million dollars the last
words he uttered to his daughter were I
have been poisoned you will be next
well isn't that harsh believing him
Hetty made a storeroom closet into her
bedroom and hard boiled eggs that can't
be poisoned her main meal two weeks
after the death of mr. Robinson Petty's
aunt passed away as well and once her
will was announced a five-year court
case started for Henrietta she was
furious that her aunt didn't leave her a
two million dollar fortune like she
promised but only $65,000 a year in
interest so heady made a fake will and
brought it to court claiming that her
aunt dictated it to her five years and
thousands of dollars in legal fees later
Hetty received around a half a million
dollars that she happily invested in
greenbacks bonds issued by the
government you'll find out how that
worked out for her later now that she
was one of the richest women in America
Hetty decided it was time to do what
society expected of her and get married
in 1867 after making him sign a
prenuptial agreement that said he wasn't
after her fortune she tied the knot with
Edward Green they moved to London for a
few years the family lived at the
Langham Hotel and this is where their
kids were born
Edward whom everyone called Ned was born
in August of 1868
three years later Hedy gave birth to a
daughter
she named Sylvia after her aunt edward
green had the prestigious job of
director of three banks in London but
his wife surpassed him even at that time
remember I mentioned greenbacks not many
people believed in their success but
Hedy had an exceptional financial gut as
you know and was positive they would
bring her another million dollars and
she wasn't mistaken so she made another
million by 1874 this was the year the
Greens returned to the US they didn't go
to New York but moved into Edwards
family home in Belo Falls Vermont this
is where and when head east in genus
really took off America's wealthiest
woman would bargain with shop owners
over every price she reused envelopes
and it wasn't because she cared about
the economy when it got cold she
wouldn't buy winter clothes but wore
layers of newspapers under her coat to
keep herself warm she refused to pay the
bills from lawyers and doctors in 1882
when her son Ned who was 14 at the time
dislocated his knee she didn't take him
to a good doctor instead she tried a
hospital for the poor and then home
treatment as a result his leg was
amputated
Ned however never blamed his mom for it
when her husband's mother passed away
Hetty refused to let reception guests
use expensive crystal as she feared it
would be stolen by visitors or servants
whom she constantly accused head east in
genus of course affected her family life
basically it was the reason for her
split up with Edward in 1885 the
financial house John J Cisco and Sons
went bankrupt Edward was the biggest
debtor of the firm and Hetty was one of
the investors he hoped that Hetty would
forgive him his debts because they were
a family couple you know but Hetty was
positive financial and family affairs
were two completely different things and
refused to do so her husband went
bankrupt and the couple split up
Eddie eventually paid Edwards half a
million dollar debt by the way
she didn't want to get back with him
anyway by 1900 Hetty had an annual
income of around seven million dollars
while average American families made
five hundred yet the split up with her
husband made her even more frugal and
you think you couldn't go any farther
with that Hetty let her son Ned go off
on his own and now live with her
daughter Sylvia on around $5 a week
Hetty control Sylvia because she feared
that all men were only after her money
they moved from apartment to apartment
since Hetty still feared someone was
after her trying to poison her and if
you think they were luxurious apartments
in Manhattan you'd be wrong the place
she stayed at the longest was in Hoboken
New Jersey it was small cold and quite
miserable and while they stayed there
the name by the Bell on the front door
was doing after heddes beloved dog by
the way while the millionaire herself
would normally have oatmeal or eggs
she'd always feed her dog good steak
that's a good boy buddy never gave up
her passion for the stock market
she had her money in a few banks and
since she didn't want to rent her own
office she'd just go pick one of the
banks each day and demand a free desk to
work at fearing she would otherwise take
her millions elsewhere the bank's agreed
to it in 1898 Edward Greene got sick and
it was clear he wouldn't recover Sylvia
persuaded her mother to forgive him and
so Hetty spent the last years of his
life with him after Edward passed away
in 1902 she swore she would only wear
black for the rest of her life she never
broke her promise
well it sounds beautiful and romantic
the reality was that she didn't wear
different black clothes but the same
dress day by day
some people believe the reason she did
it was practical black needs less
cleaning than other colors and when she
did take her black dress to the dry
cleaners she only paid for the hem to be
cleaned
result her clothes grew mouldy had the
smell of the onions she constantly
chewed on for good health and imagined
with the richest woman in New York
looked and smelled white you
she stayed true to herself up to an old
age and when she got a hernia she only
agreed to see a doctor when it was so
bad she couldn't want when the doctor
told her she needed surgery for $150 she
was shocked and tried to bargain with
him Hetty passed away in July of 1916
after having a few strokes her children
inherited her fortune which was
estimated between 100 and 200 million
dollars Sylvia who only escaped from her
mother and got married at the age of 38
donated her share to relatives friends
and charity
Ned spent his money in a more
extravagant way on luxurious estates
yachts jewelry diamond studded chamber
pots and ladies it was maybe because she
only wore black for a long time or
because of her financial wizardry that
people called Hedy the witch of Wall
Street years after her death her name
was still a synonym for miser now are
you good at saving money or do you just
spend it all come payday hmm let me know
down in the comments if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go all Emma knees or Scrooge I
mean Eddie Greene just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life